---
title: Tower Defense Game Journey So Far
date: 2025-03-31
draft: false
tags:
  - gamedev
  - thoughts
---
In my previous post, I talked about how I want to create this tower defense game as a challenge to myself. It was for a student assignment but then it turned into something that I can use as a way to prove myself that I can complete things. 
Some time passed after that and I actually finished the game. Yayyyy. 
Our course professor gave us a deadline for a first draft of the project and I managed to finish the game before it. I was working hard for days and created a complete game with all the features and screens we planned. But after that, something happened. 
I wasn't feeling good. I couldn't really understand why it felt like that. I thought maybe it's because the game is not impressive yet. I mean it was complete but since I made it in just few days, it lacked polish. It didn't look good or the gameplay was not fun. I felt like I failed. Actually it was still an impressive achievement but I guess sometimes it is hard for me to recognize my achievements and feel proud. 
But I think there was more than these feelings. I continued to feel sad for the next day too. I couldn't understand why I was feeling that. Actually now I can't remember my feelings that time, maybe I should have written them at that moment. Some time has passed. Anyways...
Now a week passed since then. And yesterday I started to work on the game again even though I did enough for the student assignment. I wanted to make it look pretty and also make the gameplay fun. And there is still a week left until we present it to the students. So maybe until that time I manage to make a better version of it. 
Actually I'm realizing that the creative process is for me, not for the end result. Maybe that's why I felt upset after finishing the first version of the game. It's like you spend your days with it, you sleep with it and you wake up with it and put your heart and soul into it and then it's just done? What now? It feels a bit like emptiness. But yesterday when I started working on it again, I felt happy. There is a different kind of joy when you are creating something. But when it ends, it ends. Before the projects, I tend to think I want the end result, I want to create something impressive. But when I complete them, I'm not interested in result anymore. I feel this a lot with my paintings. First I'm thinking about creating a painting. I think about it's concept, colors, composition and everything. In the process I research a lot, I experiment a lot. All those steps are exciting and making me feel alive. It grabs all my attention, all my thoughts are filled with it. And then I complete a painting. Sometimes it's impressive, sometimes not so impressive. For impressive ones I feel proud for a moment. But then all of them just loses their meaning to me. They are just existing in my digital files or Instagram account or inside a sketchbook. They don't excite me anymore, they don't cause me to think and daydream and explore for days and nights. And then I start a new painting to have those feelings again. 
Since paintings are smaller projects than developing a game, I guess I didn't really understand these feelings well. Actually even after them I was feeling this sadness a bit but compared to the game project, they were less intense. And I was starting a new painting or another new project or just lose myself in work tasks. But game development is hard, it requires more effort. The emptiness I feel when it ends after spending that much time with it was more deep. 
So that's why I started to think that the process is more important to me than the result. Even yesterday my brother was telling me why are you still working on it, it's just an assignment. And after that I questioned myself too. It is a simple game assignment project, and tower defense genre is not even something I'm passionate about. But I like having something to work on. Even though it is not an exciting genre for me, I still find lots of things to explore with it. I'm working on the game art style or I'm trying to figure out the ways to balance the game parameters or simulating the game experience. But actually I still tell myself that I want to make it impressive and I care about the end result. No, I may still feel these sad feelings afterwards even if it's a cute looking impressive game. The process is the part I like, not the result. 
It also make me think how much I tortured myself for my unfinished projects. Even in my last post I was like I want to prove myself that I can finish things. But if the result is not really important, why are you doing this to yourself? In everything I start or progress, I have that exciting creative process and that's what matters. If I don't continue them, maybe it means I got all my needs from that project and need a new thing. 
But there is also this thing, I want to prove something. I want to show a portfolio or projects that proves my worth and my skills. Maybe that's why I was hard on myself. But why does it matter? I mean I don't even want to be employed. And other people's admiration doesn't really have much value. At least it is not that important to cause you to be hard on yourself. 
Last night I was feeling a bit stressed after working on the game all day. While working on it I was happy. But at night, I was thinking about all the remaining tasks and how I can finish them quickly before next week and worrying will this be an unfinished thing again. These thoughts made me feel stressed, not the process itself. But now, writing all my thoughts here made things more clear for me. I don't need to stress about these anymore. I can just enjoy my own little adventures and have those explorative, creative, fun moments. The end doesn't really matter. 